There are so many DevOps tools and so many different DevOps topics that it could get little overwhelming
and confusing.
You might be thinking exactly what topics you should master to get your DevOps job.
In this video, I'm going to go over exactly what skill you need to master to get a job.
I have created and curated this flowchart by going through hundreds of DevOps jobs, as well as from
my practical experience of interviewing for DevOps position, both as a interviewee and an interviewer.
All right, let's get started.
So I have divided the skills into two broad categories must have and highly recommended.
The names are self-explanatory.
You have to know the areas that is under master technology and highly recommended.
It will separate you from other candidates.
So the first thing you need to understand is Linux commands.
Now, don't panic.
You don't need to understand the inner workings of Linux.
And what are the intricate differences between different Linux versions?
You need to know the commands that can be used with DevOps tools as well as for your data operations.
Next thing you need to master is git commands.
So Git and Git have specifically is deeply integrated with any DevOps tools in the market.
So you need to understand how to check in your code, how to do a pull request, how to resolve fashion,
conflict, how to roll back, etc..
Next thing you need to know is infrastructure as code.
I have given two choices here for the companies who do most of their work in NWS.
They use cloud formation so you can master that.
Alternatively, you can learn TerraForm, which is cloud agnostic.
Next topic you need to master is at least one dev hub service.
So this is the actual DevOps tool using which you are going to create your DevOps pipeline.
I have given three different DevOps tools here.
If your project is 100% native, then you should learn it as provided DevOps tools such as code, build
code, commit code, pipeline, etc..
And then Jenkins.
And the third one is GitLab.
I highly recommend Jenkins.
Most of the jobs require Jenkins as the preferred choice of DevOps tool.
It is still the number one tool.
Learning Jenkins will open the most amount of job opportunity for your DevOps career.
Now the next thing you need to know is DevOps pipelines as in workflows.
Just learning the tools is okay, but you need to understand how you implement different workflows using
that tool.
For example, how do you build and push Docker container images to a container repository?
How do you deploy your container to a Kubernetes cluster?
How do you run Shell script from Jenkins?
How do you submit your infrastructure as code from your DevOps tool?
How do you trigger a lambda from Jenkins?
How do you install your software into easy to using Ansible with Jenkins and much more?
A lot of candidates don't do this part and hence they don't understand the pros and cons of different
ways to do different workflows.
Next, we go into the highly recommended area, so you should master at least one of the relevant technology
amongst Kubernetes, lambda or traditional ESI two.
So Kubernetes is highly recommended here.
And finally, you need to bring all your learnings together and do some practice, interview, question
and answer.
And after you do all that, you should be able to apply for almost all DevOps jobs and get the job.
So let's go over what's covered in this course.
So in this course, we are going to go over the Linux commands that you need for your DevOps job.
Now Git and GitHub is its own separate area, but in this course I'm going to go over the essential
git commands that are critical for your DevOps job.
Next, I'm going to go over the cloud formation basics.
I have kept the TerraForm icon here because I'm going to go over TerraForm workflows during DevOps pipeline.
Next one, we are going to go over Jenkins in depth.
If you complete the Jenkins parts of this course, you should be all set for the interviews as well
as your actual projects.
Next part is DevOps pipeline.
As part of this course, we are going to go over multiple workflows, the workflows I mentioned in the
previous slide as well as more.
The next area is Kubernetes.
Kubernetes is its own huge area on itself.
But as part of this course, I'm going to go through Kubernetes primer because we are doing a lot related
to Kubernetes with DevOps, such as building an image, pushing it to registry, deploying your application
container, image to Kubernetes, cluster, etc. That's why I wanted to go through the basic lectures
so that you have some sort of foundation to understand those lectures as well as go forward and learn
more of Kubernetes.
Next, I'm going to go over the DevOps interview question and answer.
So the ideal recommended path is you can learn the Linux command from this course and then from Git
and GitHub, you can check out my highest rated rocking Git and GitHub, a real world guide course for
cloud formation and TerraForm.
You can learn that from my rocking cloud formation.
CDK with the DevOps.
Interview guide course.
And for the Kubernetes, check out my highest rated rocking Kubernetes with Amazon Ex Forget and DevOps
course.
Now again, I don't want it to make it sound like you have to get my courses.
But since they are the highest rated and best seller and students say good stuff about it, feel free
to check them out.
But if you already have some other courses, you have material.
By all means, please go ahead and study from those.
I know.
I know what you folks are thinking right now, Raj.
How about certifications and coding?
You did not mention them in your flowchart.
So think about certifications is SATs are good only to get recruiter attention.
Once you go to the interview, no one cares about the site.
You will be asked questions on the topics that I went through in the flowchart.
If you do want to get a site to distinguish yourself from the other candidates, go for a sysadmin associate
or a DevOps pro.
You can also get Kubernetes sites.
They are quite valuable at this point.
Avoid super specific sites, especially if you are beginning your career in DevOps.
Super specific sites like TerraForm sites are not that valuable and it has less bang for your buck.
In most of the job applications, you would see that it is nice to have the DevOps certification or
Kubernetes certification.
In very rare occasions you would see someone asking for super specific certifications like TerraForm
Ansible.
Now about coding.
Coding is not a primary requirement for DevOps jobs.
It can be picked up at job and more importantly, there are no coding ground for DevOps interviews.
That's why I did not put it under mask tab or highly recommended.
It is kind of nice to have if you want you can learn one of the coding language and then run some dev
hub scripts in it so that when the interviewer asks, Hey, can you tell me how you automated some of
your processes?
So you can say, in addition to using Jenkins and batch scripts and infrastructure as code, you could
say that you have also used some sort of coding to run some scripts.
And if you do want to learn some coding, learn Python.
Python is very diverse and can be used in different areas.
For example, for DevOps, you can use Python to run some scripts, you can use Python to code back,
end up the APIs.
Python can be used to write HTML programs, and recently Python even started to get used in the front
end applications.
Just for the record, I know Python quite well, but I learned it because I was in the project related
to IML when I was giving interview for cloud architecture as well as DevOps.
No one asked any questions on Python.
All right, back to the flowchart.
Hopefully this flowchart was helpful to reduce the confusion on your mind that what DevOps topics you
should study and practice.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture by.